Another interesting input is our mouse. Through
the mouse we can get the x and y coordinate of
the current position of our mouse. But we can also
get the state, so is it currently click/pressed
and, thereby, trigger certain events and
functions. Let's start with the position.
I already showed this in the curve function.
Inside our draw function we can get access to
the current position through x and y parameters.
We can remove the translate then and now we have
this circle following our mouse. And as we move
the mouse the position of the circle changes.
Obviously you can only get the position of
the mouse as long as the mouse is over the
active browser window. As soon as you move out
of the browser you cannot access the position.
In addition to the current position, we can
also get the state. So let's imagine we want to,
say, change the radius depending on if
the mouse is currently pressed or not.
For this there is a parameter called,
or a variable called mouseIsPressed.
This is a boolean variable. To check if the mouse
is currently pressed, we can make the condition
mouseIsPressed ===true. If the mouse is
pressed, then the radius should change. And
let's change the radius to 50 when the mouse
is clicked. Now as soon as i press my mouse,
the size changes and if i release the mouse again
it's 100 again. In addition, there is also certain
functions that are triggered when certain events
are happening. Let's say every time somebody
clicks the mouse, the circle size should increase.
Let's define our radius here. Let's start with 10.
Remove this chunk here and now there
is a function called mouseClicked.
And this function is triggered every time the
mouse is clicked down and released. There are a
couple of other functions like, doubleClick
and mouseMove. I've added links to those
other functions in the description below
the video. But you can use them similar
to how we're using the mouseClick now. Inside the
mouseClick, inside the curly brackets we will now
increase the radius by 5 every time the
mouse is clicked. I save this again.
We start with 10 and every time i now click
the mouse, the radius is increased by five.